# Project Description

This repository contains the scripts used to replicate parts of the results in the paper "A comprehensive study design reveals treatment- and transcript abundance–dependent concordance between RNA-seq and microarray data". This project is divided into three parts: data curator, programmer, and analyst. It contains the bash code and R code that was used to pre-process and analyze the down-stream data.

Wang, Charles, Binsheng Gong, Pierre R. Bushel, Jean Thierry-Mieg, Danielle Thierry-Mieg, Joshua Xu, Hong Fang, et al. 2014. “A comprehensive study design reveals treatment- and transcript abundance–dependent concordance between RNA-seq and microarray data” Nature Biotechnology 32 (9): 926–32. PMID: 4243706


# Contributors

Data Curator: Teresa Rice - tpillars@bu.edu

Programmer: Maha Naim - mnaim21@bu.edu

Analyst: Arushi Shrivastava - arushi08@bu.edu

# Repository Contents
Prepare for severly uncreative file names

# Data Curator
## commands.txt
Copy toxgroup 4 samples into working directory and run fastqc on the fastq.gz files. You need to manually create 2 directories(out_fastqc and fastq), manually move files to respective folders.

## commands2.txt
Runs STAR analysis using rat genome reference from BU, and puts output into directory star_results2 (need to mkdir star_results2 manually). Will create .bam files.

## commands3.txt
Runs MultiQC on out_fastqc files produced from commands.txt

## datacuratorRcommands.R
Utilizes libraries: tidyverse, dplyr, and gridExtra. Individually loads in each star log.final.out file into a table (modify the object to include the sample ID) full join all STAR output tables. Creates STAR summary table of select QC metrics, creates png from this table.

# Programmer

## featureCounts.qsub
Runs featureCounts on all 9 BAM files produced from the STAR analysis. Output files are located on SCC.

## multiQC_countfiles.qsub
Runs MultiQC on the count files generated by the featureCounts.qsub script. Output HTML report generates 2 plots which are located in the deliverables_part3 directory.

## programmer.R
Utilizes tidyverse, data.table, ggplot2, ggrepel, and DESeq2 libraries. Creates box plots of the featureCounts count distribution sample files and runs DESeq2 on individual treatment groups. Outputs histograms, scatter plots, and tables located in the respective deliverable sections.
